Well, as I mentioned before, I said
that this project has no JavaScript so
far, so
I'm going to start working with that.
So I will keep my Chrome there,
so we can have both
at the same time, okay,
my code on my browser,
so I'm not jumping between both options.
The first thing that we need
to add is a JavaScript file.
So if you have ever played with
Vanilla JavaScript few years ago,
one of the scary parts is that you
need to have hundreds of scripts,
one script declaration per
file that you need, okay?
That was the problem,
yeah, it was a problem.
That's why one of the reasons
of JavaScript bundling was that,
not the most important reason,
was more for performance.
But anyway, we were using tools to bundle
all my JavaScript files in one file,
because we didn't have
context per file before.
But today, we are using modern JavaScript.
It's difficult to say modern JavaScript,
because what's modern?
But anyway, today it's like post,
let's say, ES 2017.
That is that we are using
ECMAScript modules,
we are using async await,
we are using class declarations.
So that's what we deal today
with modern JavaScript.
Later today, I'm going to use also
one thing that is from ES 2019 and
2020, but that is, anyway, compatible
with all the browsers these days.
But despite that particular part,
the rest is actually today
compatible with all the browsers,
but no, IE 9, okay?
Yeah, it's not going to be
compatible with IE9, but
we shouldn't care too much about that.
So today, we don't need to create
one script tag per file, and
we can still organize our code in
different files with ES modules, okay?
So we're going to do that.
So they're going to start, and by the way,
this is actually a pretty common
pattern on libraries as well.
You have an entry point.
So the entry point is actually one file
that sometimes it's even called 'app,' okay?
So I'm going to create an app.js file,
okay?
So the app.js file is going
to be our entry point.
So, that entry point,
Which is just the only JavaScript
that we are gonna inject or
we are going to reference in our HTML.
So we are not going to add more scripts,
just app.js.
And maybe we're thinking,
isn't it a good idea to
create a scripts folder and
then add our scripts there?
Well, I could argue that that's for
the past.
I'm not sure if it's a good idea for
this case.
You will see why in a second.
I mean, it was common before to have
the styles folder, the scripts folder, and
the image folder, or images folder.
Well, today,
we can think this differently,
more similar to what you
are used to with a library.
So how many scripts, root scripts,
will we have one app.js?
Well, let's put it in the root,
it's only one file.
The rest of the JavaScript file, I'm not
saying that we will write everything in
one file, but the rest of the files
will be organized by kind of files.
We are going to create components,
we are going to create services.
And then we can have folder for those
ideas instead of the scripts folder that
maybe it's a little bit outdated,
but again, this is just one solution.
As I mentioned there,
you can make your own decision here.
But I wanna emphasize that maybe that
decision of using a script folder,
it's kind of from a different era,
okay, so
it's not really what we're
used to use these days.
So anyway, now, I'm going to create
the file that is empty right now.
And my script tag, by the way,
is not finished yet.
And so I wanna first because we
are doing Vanilla JS from scratch.
And you might not know about this,
but do you know what happens
in terms of performance with our
script as it is right now,
like in a script with a source and
that's all?
So when the browser is parsing
the HTML line by line, let's say,
I'm simplifying, but
when it finds a script tag like that,
it will stop parsing the rest
of the HTML at that point.
It will download the JavaScript file,
it will execute the JavaScript file,
and when it's done with that,
it will continue the rest, okay?
That's why an completely
deprecated best practice today,
so it's deprecated, but
a lot of people, I mean in college or
in some trainings,
they're still saying this,
that you should put your scripts
at the bottom of the body.
Have you ever seen that?
Well, that's deprecated,
you shouldn't be doing that.
But why?
The reason was to render the HTML,
and then the JavaScript file,
because the browser was halting
the parsing at that point.
So then you were seeing
an effect of a white page.
You go to a URL and
you see white or blank for
a lot of time before seeing
even the text of the page.
Well, today,
we have some attributes that we can apply,
such as defer or async, that the code
that you are doing from React or
Vue or Svelte,
it's actually doing this, okay?
So quickly, what's the difference?
This is more for a performance workshop,
but let me give you the insights.
Let's say that if you're
not sure which one to use,
defer or async,
you should use defer, okay?
So let's stay with defer as default.
Defer, it's a Boolean attribute, so
I don't need to specify a value.
Defer will actually do this.
When the browser finds, it's parsing
the HTML, when it finds the script,
it says, it says defer.
Okay, because it's defer,
I will download the file in parallel, but
I'm not going to wait, I will continue
parsing the rest of the HTML, okay?
So it's not halting the parsing.
When the whole parse operation finishes,
at that moment,
it will execute the JavaScript file.
So it will defer the execution
of that file for later, okay?
So it's a good idea to have defer.
When to use async, it's one or the other,
not both, it's one or the other.
Async, today, is more suitable for
small scripts that really
need to be executed as soon as possible,
for example, analytics,
things that you need to send to
your server, things like that.
Async will not halt the parsing,
it will download the file in parallel,
but once the file is ready,
it will halt the parsing and
execute the script at that point.
So it's kind of in the middle between
the original script loading and defer.
But by default, let's say we defer.